What is this?
------------

This is a expansion of the sorting visualization found at https://github.com/cortesi/sortvis. In particular, to start out I'm focussing on quicksort --- not because its a great sorting algorithm, but because it is simple. The existing visualization showed the state of the list as it was sorted. I wanted to show also what the program was doing as it went through the steps of sorting the list. For instance, for quicksort it shows why the program sometimes takes a while to "figure out" that the list is actually sorted. This shows, incidentally, why quicksort isn't the greatest algorithm. 

How do I run this?
------------------

The notes below I made for myself about the steps that went into making a visualization, but happily I have now automated that in a Makefile and shell script. After editing some variables in the Makefile, mostly to specify the list to be sorted, the filename of the final product and some intermediate data files, one just has to say "make treevis" and it should work (for a sequential quicksort example). As I add more algorithms and choices for sequential vs. parallel the Makefile will get more options, which I will document here when they become available. 

Guide to the code
----------------

Note that this code was mostly done as an exercise to learn/prove to myself that I knew Haskell and d3.js. The json that is given as an input to the tree visualization is generated by a Haskell program, and the visualization code is written in d3. The file TogetherTest.html contains the d3 code I wrote when I was testing it, though the examples are generated by the same code embedded in a shell script that pushes out variations as different arrays are input. 

------------------------------------------------------------------

Notes about making a sorting visualization from the existing sortvis code

Relevant Sortvis command line reference

    -F READFILE_SORTHIST  Read an entire sorting history from file
    -o OFNAME             Output file name. Only usable when a single algorithm is being drawn.
    -v                    Be verbose.
    --background=BACKGROUND
                      Background colour - default ffffff.
    --gradient-start=GRADIENT_START
                      Gradient start colour - default ffffff.
    --gradient-end=GRADIENT_END
                      Gradient end colour - default 606060.
  
 Weave:
    Weave visualisation options.

    -x WIDTH            Image width
    -y HEIGHT           Image height
    --line-width=LINE   Total line width
    --border-width=BORDER
                        Border width
    -r                  Rotate images 90 degrees

Command line currently using: 
  ../../contrib/sortvis/sortvis weave -F svsequential.txt --line-width=10 -x 720 -y 240 -r -o svseq.png

Wanting better colors, I tried:
  ../../contrib/sortvis/sortvis weave -F svsequential.txt --line-width=10 -x 720 -y 240 --background=eeeeee --gradient-end=393b79 --gradient-start=dadaeb -r -o svseqbright.png 

--------------------------------------------------------------

Notes about generating json (and the text file needed by sortvis) from the Haskell program: 

    Usage: qsortclocked [-vh] filename (list to be sorted)
    Filename is the filename to send to sortvis
    List should be numbers separated by spaces 
    For example: ./qsortclocked svsequential.txt \"3 9 2 5 1 4 8 0 6 7\"
